---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

## War experience and Fortifications in Germany, France, Belgium and the Netherlands

Maps are often used in virtual exhibitions as a visual aid for historical topics. They are a familiar and effective medium to show changes over large geographical and chronological distances. Most importantly, maps – and especially digital maps – can juxtapose different kinds of data (demographic, economic, cultural, social) in space and show their relationship over time. Digital mapping makes it possible to link different kinds of media (video, pictures, sound) and bring geographical and historical elements into interaction. GIS tools and digital maps also allow users to interact and experiment with maps to learn about the past. For both historians and a wider public, they are a powerful heuristic tool, offering valuable opportunities to engage a wider public in critical cartography and historical storytelling.
This historical GIS project focuses on war experiences and military fortifications in France, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands in the 19th and 20th centuries. I would like to propose a transnational cultural and social approach to these military sites, which are often analysed solely from a military perspective, somewhat neglecting their impact on space, soldiers and civilian populations alike. The aim of this study, which will take the form of a virtual exhibition – with a historical GIS-based map as the central element – is to encourage critical reflexion on the past and on our perception and understanding of national boundaries and war experiences. As a participatory mapping project in a digital public history context, it will involve historians, developers, archivists, local museums, scholars and citizens to develop and sustain the map with historical content. The project will raise many questions linked to the nature of digital maps (e.g. tools, transparency of sources), organisational issues (crowdsourcing, co-working, bottom-up vs top-down processes) and the realisation of virtual exhibitions.  
